All right, good afternoon.
My name is Darin Adler.
I'm the manager of the Safari and
Web Kit engineering team at Apple.
And I'm going to talk to you a little bit
about the Web Kit Open Source Project,
something that just went
online Monday this week,
late Monday night.
So we're basically taking a whole new
approach to open source with the Web Kit,
different from what we've
been doing in the past.
And we want to tell you all
about what we're doing different.
And this is our first chance in person
to answer people's questions about it.
So I hope we can answer
some of your questions.
So let's start with a little
information about history.
The first moment in Web Kit history
is when we began the Safari project.
So way back in 2001,
we began Safari project.
At the time it was an internal project,
secret at Apple.
And we chose the KHTML open source
library as the basis for our project.
Then a little bit later, in 2003,
we made our first public
release of Safari.
That was the Safari beta.
We announced what we were doing.
And we made our first release
of the open source components,
WebCor and JavaScriptCor.
So then later that year was
the release of Safari 1.0,
our first production release, non-beta.
And it was also the very first time
we released the Web Kit framework,
which was an API for doing the same kind
of web engine stuff from inside Safari,
but doing it in any application.
In October, the release of Mac OS X 10.3
Panther was the very first time that
Safari and also the Web Kit were
included with an OS release.
Then February of the next year,
we released Safari 1.2 and there were
lots of new features in Safari 1.2.
The one I've decided to
mention here is XMLHttpRequest.
It has been the basis for some
really important development.
You'll hear people talking about that
a lot tomorrow when you go to the
sessions about the Web Kit and Safari.
In June of 2004 was last
year's developers conference.
And at WWDC we released a preview
of two new versions of Safari,
1.3 for Panther and 2.0 for Tiger.
And there were some new
stuff that was unveiled then,
included the Canvas element,
editing in Web Kit,
and also the dashboard using our
technology for the very first time.
and the dashboard is particularly
exciting because it's so
different from a web browser,
yet using the Web Kit technology.
Then in April, way,
way back in April 2005,
I can hardly remember it,
Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger was released,
which included Safari 2.0 and we also
released Safari 1.3 at the same time
as part of Mac OS X 10.3.9 with very
similar features from the point of
view of a software website developer.
And here we are today with the
Web Kit Open Source Project,
which I'll tell you a
little bit more about.
So let's think back to
before this project.
How did we do development?
And when I say we,
I'm talking about the engineering
team building Web Kit and Safari.
We had two frameworks.
One was called WebKitCor and
the other is JavaScriptCor.
And they were based on the
KHTML and KJS projects from KDE.
And we would publish the
sources to each of these.
And typically we'd publish them,
well we always would publish them
whenever we made a source code release
because we wanted to do that to make
sure we complied with the license.
But we also would publish them
from time to time when there
was some request or some major
change that people wanted to see.
We also had a mailing list that people
could use to discuss the project,
ask questions about it
or make contributions.
And the problem though when it comes
to outside contributions is we really
didn't do anything to make it easy to
build the thing or test it yourself.
It was really just the source
code and some people did some
really big things with it.
At least one company
built a product out of it.
But it wasn't really easy.
It was really something
that took some doing.
So, what we decided to do was something
that we think is really big.
Here's a picture of what we had before.
There was the Web Kit framework
built out of the Web Kit framework
was built on top of WebCorre,
which included the KHTML rendering
engine as well as the KWQ library
that bound it to the Mac OS.
That in turn was built on top
of the JavaScript framework,
which had both KJS,
the JavaScript engine,
plus some other open source components
to make the whole thing run.
And that's what was open.
But as of today,
we have opened the entire Web Kit.
Now this is huge because before
what you had were some pieces that
really by themselves didn't do
anything unless you added a lot more.
At this point, with the Web Kit open,
you can see everything that
matters inside the engine.
All the relevant code is there.
There's a lot of things you can do.
There's a lot of things you would
have had a hard time figuring
out without the Web Kit source.
And everything that is not open
that you need to build this is
now in a thin layer that we call
the Web Kit system interface.
And a binary for that is included.
So, this allows you to actually build
the Web Kit very easily and run
a copy of Safari against your new
Web Kit or your own application.
So,
Being more open like this
means a lot of things.
Here are some of the
things it means for Apple.
And this is just a tiny assortment of
some of the things it means for us.
One is that we think there'll
be a lot better testing.
We do as much testing as we can,
but a whole lot more people have things
that matter to them that they can test.
And we've experienced this with
other open source projects.
The things people care about the most,
they come in and test and try out.
And we expect that regressions
and mistakes we make will
be caught a lot earlier.
And in particular,
we'd have this experience before
that right when we released Safari,
there'd be sort of a
frenzy of testing energy.
We'd find all sorts of things that
we would have loved to know just
a few weeks earlier or a month
earlier so that we could have had
our release be better quality.
So we expect much better testing.
In addition, there's a possibility for
more eyes on the code.
As the changes happen,
people are going to be able to see
the changes and they're going to
be able to check if we're correct,
check if we made security mistakes.
People already do this,
but we think they can do
it in a much bigger way.
And we also think that there's a
possibility for richer participation.
People want to get involved.
There's any number of
different ways to get involved,
very few of which were possible before,
all of which are possible now.
Now, for--it's not--there aren't
just benefits for us.
There are some benefits for
developers and our community as well.
For one thing,
you now have access to the source code.
So you can see each engine
change as it's checked in.
You can try out a build long
before the general public has
that build on their machines,
before the average Apple customer has it.
You also get access to us.
You get access to the developers
on my team and also the outside
contributors who are developing.
And so that means, let's say you want to
contribute a bug fix.
You're going to have those reviewed
by the people who know the code best.
You can also have influence
on what the Web Kit people do.
Some people are going to show
up and just have a conversation
and those conversations can
have a big impact on direction.
And finally, this way of opening it,
this way of opening up source means that
you're really invited to participate,
to get in there and fix things
that bother you rather than
just having to live with them.
And just be a part of a community
that together is going to determine
the future of this software.
So, now that things are more open, sorry,
what I want to say is,
when I say things are more open,
let me get down to some of the details
of what's new as of this Monday.
First of all,
we have a brand new developer website
and it's at webkit.opendarwin.org.
And I should take this minute to say that
this whole open source project would not
have been possible without the help of
the guys at opendarwin.org that already
had experience with this sort of stuff
and helped us in tons of different ways.
And so this website is your gateway
to information about the project.
A lot of the things I'm saying
here today are set on the website.
It also tells you everything you
need about all the other resources.
And so the website is
kind of the crucial bit.
Besides the website,
we've now got a public CVS repository.
So there's both anonymous CVS for
most people and then also read/write
CVS for people who have commit access.
And this public CVS repository is how you
can see the changes right as they happen.
If I fix a bug,
a few minutes later anyone who
wants to can pull down that bug fix.
There's also a developer mailing list.
And the information
is all on the website,
so you don't have to worry about
these URLs or mailing list addresses.
But there are actually
three mailing lists,
and all at open--all at opendarwin.org.
And this is the list--this here,
Web Kit Dev, is the one for discussing
Web Kit development,
just kind of the general place.
In addition, there's an IRC channel for
developers and you can hop on there
any time of day and there'll be
someone there discussing Web Kit.
I mean,
I cannot tell you the huge number of
people that are hanging out on that
channel and all the things they know
about Web Kit that I'm just amazed by.
And this has literally
been open only for,
you know, what,
less than 48 hours at this point.
It's almost intimidating how
many people are on there.
I mean,
there were like 150 last time I was on.
And it's pretty exciting and I think
that's really a great place to go to
kind of get the pulse of the project.
Some of the people
there are just lurking,
some of the people there are actively
working on the project already.
And our own developers who work on
Web Kit will be there to talk to you.
And then finally,
there's a public bug database.
Now, this means--this is a place
where you can report bugs,
and it's different from Apple's
internal bug database in that
you can see the whole thing.
You can see every bug.
You can see the state of the bug.
And it's one of the things that really
helps people who want to help fix
bugs go look there to see problems,
and people who want to report
bugs will report them there.
But more about that later.
So all five of these things
are new as of Monday.
They're all online, and check them out.
So we made a bunch of other changes too.
It wasn't just that we
created these five things.
First of all,
we made it very easy to build Web Kit,
WebCorre and JavaScriptCorre.
You can, you can,
people have done it who really
don't know much about programming.
If you know a lot about
programming tools,
it'll be even easier.
And as I mentioned earlier,
the changes you can now
see as we check them in.
So before we had open source,
you could see our code,
but you didn't see the changes until,
for quite a while.
And we went the extra mile.
We included the complete CVS history
from the very beginning of the project.
So not only can you see our current
changes as they're checked in,
but you can go back and say what
happened on this day in history,
2003, 2002, whatever.
And there are various reasons you might
be interested to see that evolution.
We're doing a lot of things
to encourage contributions.
This is new.
The website talks about how
you can get changes integrated.
And the very first change that was
integrated was a fix for a small
memory leak that we got within,
boy, within hours of being online.
And already we've gotten all
sorts of interesting changes.
This is different.
We're really encouraging
this in a big way.
And not only do we have this
mailing list and IRC channel,
but it's really a place
we're hanging out.
People have already been there
and know that we're there,
reviewing patches, talking to people,
all that sort of thing.
So when I said you get to meet,
you get to be there on the channel
and meet some of the developers,
I really want to take the next step
and show you face to face a couple
of the people that you'll see there.
So these are also the guys who
did most of the work to make the
whole open source project possible.
So come on up on stage.
First, Dave Hyatt, who is one of our
Safari Web Kit engineers.
And who's super famous
because of his great blog,
Surf and Safari,
and all of his web expertise.
And then Maciej Stachowiak.
So Maciej is another
engineer on our team.
And he really-- he did more work
than anyone else to make this
open source project possible.
So anyway,
let me hand it over to these two guys.
Do you guys have your microphone yet?
on the podium, oh okay, right over here.
And they'll show you what it takes
to download and build the Web Kit.
Alright,
so what we can show you here is the
instructions on the website for building
and then Maciej here can actually
try it and we'll see if it works.
I have to warn you,
we haven't practiced this a lot,
so much like real open source projects,
we're sort of making
this up as we go along.
So bear with us.
Just a second.
Can we get back to the demo one machine?
Is that text readable for you?
Yeah, it's great.
Okay.
So developer tools we already have here.
I'm gonna launch the terminal
so I can do these other steps.
Terminal.
I'm just going to cut and
paste these instructions from
the site because I'm lazy.
You can do this too.
Real typing is not required.
So what we have here is an anonymous
CVS server so that even without
write access you can pull the code.
And it's basically you just log
in to the anonymous CVS site
and the password is anonymous.
Thank you for checking out.
So you just get one module that knows how
to update all the others and here you go.
It's all checking out.
It would take less than a minute
to pull a whole rendering engine,
which is pretty small for
code that does so much.
There's not that many exciting things
I can say about the files flying by,
so there they are.
This is one of our test suites.
This is mostly test cases here.
We're big on testing.
We'll talk about the
regression test more later,
but we have just a huge suite that
we're building up of all sorts of tests,
both ones based on the spec and then
one based on reduced cases from real
websites to try to keep things going
forward and not regress as much.
You guys are having the
same bug I have at home.
Makes each directory go slower.
I don't know what it is.
Yeah.
It's a lot of people
checking out the code.
Yeah, it might take three
minutes instead of one.
This is all layout tests now.
And now we're up to the test
suite for WebCor itself.
The
[Transcript missing]
Oh look, there's a handy link here
for building the code.
And much like checking out,
it's very simple.
It's just one line.
Gotta set the Xcode preference first.
Oh, right.
First I have to...see,
I'm not so good at reading.
He started with step two.
Don't skip step one.
Remember to actually read
the instructions unlike us.
Yeah, building has a first time step.
You only have to do this once in Xcode.
It's important to set
a common building code.
Building Panel and Preferences.
Place build projects in customized
directory and I don't know
what this user's username is.
Let's see.
User's Apple.
Alright.
Users, Apple, /build.
These need to go into a common
directory so that all the different
projects can find each other because
it's built out of multiple frameworks
that all need to link together.
So there's that and...
You probably should make it.
Okay.
It doesn't... Details.
It might not matter, but you know.
But I'll fire up the build now and...
Hey, David.
Let it get going.
Make him talk into the mic.
Stick the mic in his face.
Okay.
I'm firing off the build now and
we'll let it go for a while and
give the floor back to Darin.
Okay.
Let me know when that
thing's done because,
you know,
we'll be able to go back to you.
So back to the slides, please.
So there are a lot of different
ways to contribute and I wanted to
just talk a little bit about some
of the ways you could do it just
so you can start imagining what's
possible if you'd like to contribute.
So let's first talk about testing.
The main thing you want to do
to test is get the latest stuff.
That's what's special about
the Open Source Project.
You can test the latest.
You don't have to test our last release.
So you're going to need to download
the source and build it and try it.
And after today,
you're going to know what it
takes to do that and you do have
to go into Xcode preferences,
but that's probably the
hardest thing in the whole
[Transcript missing]
But you can even go further.
We have a whole test framework and if
there's a particular bug that you want to
make sure never gets reintroduced again,
you can create a test for that bug.
And then we promise we won't let anyone
check in any code that breaks that test.
And it's pretty straightforward
to make tests as well,
so we're hoping some people will do that.
Now some other people are
not going to want to test,
they're going to want to write code.
It's a lot of fun.
It's part of why I do this,
I just love programming.
And there's all kinds of
different types of coding tasks
you can do to help us out.
One is just fix bugs.
You can go on there, find a bug,
figure out how to fix it.
We'll show you a little
bit how to do that today.
You may have an interest in some
other platform besides OS X,
and we welcome people who are interested
in porting to other platforms.
Talk a little bit about that too.
And finally, this is the Web Engine,
and you're welcome to add what we
think of as Web Engine features.
These aren't really browser features,
they're not features from the
point of view of the end user.
They're really more like bug fixes,
getting us to be more
like other browsers,
or completing implementation of
technologies that are under the hood and
to the end user isn't a feature at all.
But we'd love for you to add
those things to our engine.
In addition,
there's so many other ways to pitch
in besides testing and coding.
And I just put a list of a few
I could think of right away.
But one of the best things you could do,
one of the most valuable
things in the project is just
show up on the mailing list,
show up on IRC.
In no time you'll be an expert
and start answering some of the
questions that other newcomers have.
This is one of the most valuable things
any open source project could have
and we'd love for people to do that.
Another thing you can do is
take a bug that just says this
website doesn't work and reduce
it down to a minimal test case.
That's another incredibly valuable thing.
A minimal test case is easy
for someone who knows the
code to write a bug fix for.
You can also go through our bug database.
You'll find that there are bugs reported
there that have already been fixed.
You'll find duplicates.
All of that helps out.
Also, and this is something people
have already been doing,
you can tell us what needs to be
improved on the website and give
us content to improve the website
itself that we'll put up there.
And the documentation about the
code we think has a long way to go.
And this is one area where
if you go through something,
you figure out a bug, you decide to help,
we would love to improve
the documentation so it
covers what you learned.
There's a lot more ways,
but those are just a few
I was able to think of.
One of the big things that this
changes is that you have more options
now when a bug is bugging you.
Before, pretty much you had one option,
report it to Apple.
You know, there's a feedback forum and,
you know, there's your second option or,
you know,
you can write angry email to Steve Jobs,
my favorite way of reporting bugs.
I just love it when Steve sends me.
But there are a lot more options
now that weren't there before.
So one of them is you can
discuss your bug with people
who are expert on Web Kit.
And that means you can send
this to this mailing list where
there are Web Kit experts,
both inside and outside of Apple.
And this is just something that was
absolutely out of the question before.
Another thing you can do is if you have
the interest and you have the skills,
you can actually fix the bug
yourself and contribute a patch.
And a lot of times,
a bug that's affecting you
is something you understand a
lot better than anyone else.
And so we're really
hoping that in some cases,
this is what people will do
when a bug is bothering them.
One of the reasons that open source
is so great is that it really allows
people to kind of scratch their own itch,
fix what they don't like about
the software they're using.
And that's an option
available now that just,
you know,
really was not practical before.
Now another thing you can do when
a bug is bothering you is you can
go over to the Web Kit Bugzilla bug
database and put a bug report in there.
There's a lot of benefits to that.
First of all, the other contributors
to the Web Kit-- Okay,
it's done.
You said to tell you.
Oh, man.
Oh, shit.
Did you build the whole thing
or is that just like part of it?
Yeah, that's it.
That's the whole thing.
All right.
That's all it takes to
build the whole engine.
Okay.
I really should have slimmed
down my talk a little bit.
So, let me just finish
what I'm talking about.
So, you got the--so if you make a
report in the Bugzilla bug database,
everyone can see the
problem you described.
Other open source contributors
can get in there and fix it for
you and you'll also be able to see
the process as people argue about,
"That's not a bug at all.
That's how it's supposed to
work," and all that kind of stuff
and you can defend yourself.
But there are times when you're also
going to want to put the bug report
in the Apple internal bug database.
Let me tell you about a few times.
It reveals something that
you would prefer only you and
Apple know about your product.
If you're in that situation,
feel free to put that in
the internal bug database.
It's not--the open source
contributors aren't going to see it,
but we'll get that feedback.
And that information.
Another reason to use the
internal bug database is that
products other than WebKit,
let's say the mail application
or the Safari web browser,
bugs in--the WebKit bug database
is not the place for those.
So, if you want a new menu
item in the Safari menus,
it really needs to go into
Apple's internal bug database.
And we'll have to--you know,
I'm sure that'll confuse people at first.
We're going to have to move bugs out
of Bugzilla into the internal one.
And another thing is if--we use
the Apple internal bug database to
plan things like software updates.
And so, if a bug is particularly--has
a particularly impact
on one of your products,
you may want to write a bug in the
Apple bug database and mention the
Bugzilla bug report so that we can--so we
can consider that when we're considering
software updates and that sort of thing.
So you now have all these options.
I'm not even sure I covered them all,
but when a bug bugs you,
you can do any of these things.
So, Maciej and Dave are now going to
show you what it takes to fix a bug.
Alright,
so now that we have the tree built,
let's try running it just to see if we
can run Safari with the new Web Kit.
You have to run it from the
Web Kit tools directory.
I think there's a script
subdirectory in Web Kit Tools.
We haven't gotten a lot of
sleep the past few nights.
So there's Safari running.
Do you remember the Acid2 test URL?
This is just to prove that we're
actually running the latest code.
This is a new CSS and
HTML conformance test.
It was recently created by Ian Hickson
that Dave did a bunch of fixes for.
and you can see it in action.
There it is, rendering correctly.
Now you too can have it on your machine.
And now Dave's going to find a bug in
Flexzilla and fix it live as you watch.
And then I'll review his chains.
We hope this works.
I sure hope this works.
Make sure when he's
talking it's in the mic.
...as a pretty basic
HTML for compliance bug.
The object element,
you note that the object element
doesn't support a handful of attributes,
including align, v-align,
h-space and v-space.
And a test case demonstrating the
problem is actually attached to the bug.
And I want to emphasize that the best
way to get bugs fixed quickly is to
make really good minimal reductions that
include only a snippet of HTML that's
needed to reproduce the problem.
Because that makes it really
easy for us to see what's wrong,
what's going wrong.
So, this is an example of a test.
The object elements represented
is that big green block.
And the text says that the object
should be floating off to the right,
to the far right of the window,
and have some margins around it.
So there should be some space
between it and the text,
about 20 pixels.
And so it's not really rendering
the way that we would expect it to.
So what I'm going to do is fix the bug.
Alright, I think Dave's going to need
both hands to type this time.
Since it's a safe assumption,
this is where a bulk of the HTML,
CSS and DOM code is.
And you'll see that there's
a subdirectory in here,
KHTML.
This is our fork of the KHTML engine.
So what we have here is an
HTML subdirectory where all
of the DOM elements are.
And there's a nicely named
HTML object and bull class here.
Bigger font.
Yeah, how do I raise the font here?
Show fonts there.
Ah.
Command T.
That didn't work at all.
. All right.
. Okay.
I think you need to do some preferences.
Go ahead and go in preferences, guys.
There it is.
Fonts and colors.
The amount of sleep we've
got in the last four days.
Not much.
Down, down.
All right.
Editor font.
I think we have it straight.
That'll work.
Now just say okay.
You'll be fine.
[Transcript missing]
So this is the applet element,
which is not the one we want,
so I'll keep looking.
Here's the embed element,
also not the one we want.
But out of curiosity, it occurs to me,
well, the embed element,
that's not the same
as the object element.
I wonder if this has the same bug.
So I'm going to sort of look down
here and look... I see this is pretty
interesting because I see v space,
h space, align and valign are all
handled by the embed element.
So I'm going to just copy
some of this code here.
and then keep looking.
So here I am at HTML object element.
So let's look at the list of
attributes that it handles here.
I see a few.
I don't see the ones that I need,
so clearly I need to handle those.
So I'll just take the code.
From the embed element, paste it in here.
And you know,
kind of hope that that works.
Oh, that was going to be my
mistake for the code review.
You guys are too--I'm getting
code review from the audience.
And this is the power of open source.
Mike, Maciej, Mike.
There's this other function that
also handles some attributes.
So I'm going to sort of do the
pattern matching school of coding here
where I'm going to go back and say,
oh, hey, did the embed element
actually do something here?
It looks like it did.
So we can see that there's a little
bit more code to handle here.
So I'll just sort of copy that too.
We'll just paste that in.
Get rid of this one that
we don't care about.
And now we'll try building it.
Maybe later.
You don't want to change
the tools directory,
just... No,
you can just do it using the script.
[Transcript missing]
It used to be a lot more
complicated to build,
but we just felt we had to have like the
smoothest possible way to make it easy
for contributors to build and test it.
Let me know when you're done building.
Just kidding.
So now we're going to run
Safari with our scripts.
[Transcript missing]
So that's how easy it is.
We've just improved our standard support,
our HTML4 compliance
in about five minutes.
No way, man.
It's not done.
Oh, you want to see me make a patch?
Yeah.
Make a patch.
Okay.
Sorry.
I don't know about you,
but I think it's not fixed yet
until it's actually reviewed,
checked in, all that stuff.
All right.
So let's do it all.
Do you want to make the patch?
Give Maciej the mic though,
so he can talk while he's doing it.
All right,
so normally this is supposed to be
the responsibility of the contributor,
but I'm just going to--
I'm going to be generous
here because me and Dave,
we go way back,
so I can make a dip for him.
It was a small change,
I'll just... from the command
line and read it here so
I can review Dave's patch.
Now usually what you do at
this point is you would attach
the patch to the bug report.
So that allows,
then you send mail to the mailing
list to let everyone know there's
a patch on this bug report.
So not only can one reviewer review it,
but anyone else who's
following can go check it out.
[Transcript missing]
This part looks okay.
He removed the universal line,
but these cases are falling through
to the same thing over there.
These other changes look good.
You guys already spotted the
missing break that he was going
to plant there just for me,
so thanks.
Okay, well Dave,
the code change looks good,
but I have a couple
of questions about it.
The first one is,
did you run our regression test
suite to see if this breaks anything?
[Transcript missing]
That was not the right answer.
That was the right answer for me, though.
I'm always like, I didn't run them.
So let's just run the
regression test suite.
It's going to have to build this tool
that's used to dump the render tree.
And here it is going.
through our test suite,
and this takes just a
minute to run them all.
By the way,
these are -- this is a great thing
to do if you check out the tree,
just to run through the set of
automated tests we already have.
This is a very useful form of testing,
because if anything fails,
we really want to know.
And by the way,
that's a lot of failed there.
Shit.
We're getting a lot of failures.
Oh, yeah, right,
we didn't -- I followed the
instructions on the website.
That's right,
we didn't follow the instructions.
Oh, we haven't installed -- There's a
special font that you need to be able
to run the tests -- Let's go do it.
Let's go do it.
Come on!
Which has -- okay,
what the hell -- You don't
have to wait for it to finish.
Regression testing.
Download the AHEM font.
- You skipped step one again.
- We have a problem with this.
We like to go straight to the--
Oh, look at all those.
So all these tests fail because
we didn't have the special font.
This is a font that actually
has like glyphs that are squares
with particular proportions,
so you can actually make totally
repeatable cross browser tests,
which should work regardless of the
individual details of the font layout
system because the glyphs are all,
you know, perfect squares.
So I'm going to -- let's see,
where is my downloads window?
Just going to use font
book to install this guy.
Alright, now I have this crazy font
that is useless for real
life but awesome for testing.
Created by Ian Hickson,
the Web Standards Project and
What Working Group and
other cool stuff like that.
So now let's try the test again.
And we don't see as many of
those failed flying by now.
Hopefully this will work.
If you watch,
you can catch it getting a little
slower when it hits the ACID2 test.
Kind of a big test, but it's in here.
So that way I can't ever break it.
Oh, you can break it, I'm sure.
Alright, so yeah, we have test coverage
for all sorts of things.
Some areas are more complete than others.
You may have seen there's like a full
CSS1 test suite that flew by there.
We don't yet have a
complete DOM test suite,
but that's something we're looking to add
and that we'll be doing out in the open.
Table text, text, text, text.
There it is.
Okay, they all passed.
You got it right this time.
Okay, so I got another question
about this patch.
I noticed when you were looking in
that object.impl file that it had
three things implemented in it.
It had object, embed and applet.
And embed already had support for those
attributes and you added them to object,
but doesn't applet need to
support those attributes too?
Only if you use
Yeah, I guess it does.
You're right.
Why don't you fix that too?
What gives, dude?
Okay.
So, interestingly enough, if you go to,
go back to Bugzilla.
Yeah, I think there's actually
a related bug on this.
to 46, the one that was filed about
five minutes before 3247,
look, H space and V space attributes
are ignored on the applet element.
So someone had already noticed -- who
could that have been who noticed this?
Oh look, me.
That these attributes were
not properly supported.
So we can go make the same fix.
So we'll go bring these along.
And we'll head up to applet
So we can see,
this is kind of interesting,
so it did support Align,
but it was missing some of the others.
So we'll just get it all there now.
So now we've got v space, h space,
v align, and align all added.
And now we want to look at Applet's
code that actually parses them.
And we see again, it had a line,
but it was missing the
other ones that we needed.
So we'll just-- now we know we've got
it in both the embed and the object,
so we'll just go grab it again.
Including the break this time.
Now let me just say,
if I was reviewing this, I would go,
"Hey,
shouldn't we have a common base class,
guys?"
And aside from needing to fix
our tabs up in our editor,
this is in pretty good shape.
And there we go.
So we'll try building it again.
And there you go.
So now we can run the Web Kit test again.
Which should succeed?
We hope.
Yeah,
if you guys are actually going to commit,
we sure better run them.
Yeah, unfortunately we can't commit
from this machine because
it's an anonymous checkout.
Oh, man.
I'd like to show you that part so we
could be committing live on stage,
but we'll have to mail ourselves
the patch or something.
And also,
we should add new test cases for these.
It's actually difficult to
add a test case for an applet.
Oh.
Silly Java.
Can't you just--no, I guess not.
Make one that fails to load or something?
Alright, there it is.
It passed.
So there's a bug fixed.
As you can see, all this is really quick.
It doesn't take forever
to build the engine.
I mean, an HTML rendering engine is a
pretty complicated piece of code,
but because we started with the small,
simple KHTML engine and the
KJS JavaScript interpreter,
we've got a really small code
base that has a very high degree
of performance and correctness
and support for web standards,
and you can just pitch in,
look at the code and contribute.
Like Darin said,
we had people in less than 24
hours getting into the code and
sending us patches to fix bugs,
and submitting bug reports
for problems that they found
testing with the latest Web Kit.
So you should too.
Alright, thanks guys.
All right,
so let's go back to the slides here.
So that's the real thing.
I mean, really all we left out was
checking code into the repository.
And we just forgot to
bring our private keys.
That's the only reason we
didn't do that on stage.
Yeah, no way.
So they'll definitely, in fact,
if you log on in the next couple days,
I'm sure you'll see this fix landed.
So I just want to wrap up
with a couple comments.
One is that we'd like to do some
things that are beyond Mac OS X.
Now, we're all paid to work on Mac OS X.
So you might wonder,
why are we even talking about this?
Well, when it comes to something
like a web engine,
it's more valuable the more it's shared.
And already some people have taken
advantage of WebCore and done some
things-- of our existing stuff,
WebCore-- and done some things
that go beyond Mac OS X.
So I wanted to talk about some of
the things we might hope for in
the future and some possibilities
that go beyond Mac OS X.
[Transcript missing]
We're going to talk about some of
the things we might hope for in
the future and some possibilities
that go beyond Mac OS X.
We're going to talk about some of
the things we might hope for in
the future and some possibilities
that go beyond Mac OS X.
And I also think there's a chance
for some new kinds of projects,
again, that are outside the scope of
just what you need for OS X.
And I just started thinking of ones that
I thought would be really interesting.
And one is something that runs on
Windows would be huge for testing.
Because there are all
kinds of people out there,
we'll tell them about a problem
with a website and they'll say,
"Well, all I have is a Windows machine.
How can I test with your browser?" And if
there's a way to test with the engine,
that goes most of the way there.
So I think that would be really great.
And also, we have this layer in there,
Quack,
that we think has a lot of potential,
not just as a way to adapt to OS X,
but sort of as a porting layer
to make it possible to easily
put KHTML on different platforms.
And we'd like to refine
Quack as a porting layer.
And...
Everything listed on this slide and a
whole lot of other things are mentioned
on our website on the project pages.
So there are pages for all
different aspects of the
Web Kit with our ideas and thoughts,
and they're a really handy place to look
if you're interested in getting involved
or want to see what our plans are.
A lot of those,
nothing in those pages is going to tell
you when we're going to do something,
but what all those pages are going
to tell you is what we're interested
in and our idea of the roadmap.
So I'd like to include the presentation
part of this with an invitation to you
and not just the people in this room,
but anyone who would
like to get involved.
This is a lot of fun.
It has already been super
fun just this last day and a
half just talking to people.
That IRC channel is a really cool place.
And so you're invited.
If you want to come show up just
to take a peek and look around,
that's great.
If you want to come to participate,
that's great too.
Please bring your own bug reports.
That's what we need from you.
And just let us know
if you're interested.
We'll be there on the IRC channel and
we'll be there on the mailing list.
So with that,
let's take some of your questions.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I want to mention one other thing,
which is this is the website,
the Web Kit Open Source Project.
You saw it on stage.
That's the URL.
That's the only thing
you have to remember.
You don't need any of the other
URLs or email addresses or anything.
If you have questions about Web Kit from
the point of view of using the
Web Kit and want to see some of
the sample code and all that stuff,
the Developers Conference website
has all sorts of that,
has that for you.
And if you're interested in learning
more about the Web Kit from the point
of view of someone using the Web Kit,
there's some great
sessions that are relevant.
Tomorrow, we've got an introduction to
Web Kit development in the morning.
Later in the morning,
we've got some advanced
Web Kit development information.
In the afternoon,
we have some information from
the point of view of a web
designer about Safari and
effectively about Web Kit as well.
And there's a dashboard widget session.
I think that's a lab that you
might want to check out too.
And so all of these are really handy
for learning more about the Web Kit.
And if you have other kinds of questions,
miscellaneous stuff,
stuff you don't find out from our
open source website or mailing list,
please contact Mark Malone,
who is the Safari and
Web Kit point of contact.